1930
No qualifying stages as 13 teams entered the event by invitation only. 
The competition started with one group of four teams and three groups of three teams each
Knockout stage was semifinals and final.

1934
This was the first time that nations had to qualify to join the party. 
32 teams took part in the qualification process, and 16 made it to the tournament. 
No group stage; it was all knockout games from the get-go. 

1950
13 countries competed, divided into four groups: two with four teams, one with three, and one with just two. 
No knockout stage; instead, the best teams in each group qualified for a final group, where every team played against each other round-robin. 
The final result was determined by the most points earned, league-style.

1954
16 teams were divided into four groups, but the format was not round-robin.
Every group had two seeded teams and two unseeded teams, and matches were only played between seeded and unseeded teams. 
Knockout stage started with quarterfinals

1958
16 teams in four groups that used round-robin format. 
However, when two teams finished with the same number of points, there was an additional playoff game between them. 
Two sides from each group made it to the knockout stage.
Knockout stage started with quarterfinals

1962
Got rid of the playoff games during the group stage and instead applied the “goal average” to rank teams that finished equal on points.

1970
The goal average was replaced with the goal difference as one of the tie-breaking criteria

1974
The qualified teams didn’t go to the knockout round. Instead, there was a second group stage with two groups of four teams each. 
The only knockout matches were for the third place and the final, disputed between the runner-ups and winners of each group respectively.

1982
24 teams 
Six groups of four teams each. 
After the first group stage, there was another group stage for which the two best teams from each group qualified. 
The 12 teams were divided into four groups of three teams each, and the winners made it to the semifinals.

1986 
Knockout stage started with a round of 16 now. 
The top two sides in each group had an automatic ticket to move forward, while the four best of the third-placed nations, based on their points and goal differences, advanced as well. 

1998
32 teams 
Eight groups of four teams each. 
The two top teams in each group advanced to the knockout round that started with a round of 16. 